Provide a short summary about the person with disability who is the focus of the PBSP: Taylor is an energetic and outdoor loving 23 year old. He is very proud of his back yard and once he gets to know a person, will invite them over to see his lawn and garden. Taylor has lived in supported accommodation since he was 21 years old. Taylor likes to get to know people before they come to his home. Taylor likes spending time with others that can keep up with him and like spending time outside. Taylor enjoys having a big glass of cold water with ice after his outside activities. Taylor lives with two other gentlemen who are significantly older than Taylor and who prefer to be inside rather than outside. Taylor does not seem to think being inside is much fun. Taylor’s mother passed away when he was 21 and his father suffered a stroke shortly after the passing of his mother, at which time Taylor entered supported accommodation. Taylor has two older brothers [Tim and Jason] who take turns visiting Taylor once a month on a Saturday morning, sometimes taking Taylor [with staff support] to see his dad who is in a nursing home approximately two hours’ drive away. It is uncertain if Taylor understands what has happened to his parents, but he stopped signing for them after living in his home for a few months. Taylor looksforward to seeing his brothers each month and will spend extra time in the back yard to make sure it is very tidy for their visit. Taylor enjoys going out, some of his favourite places to visit is the local park which has a gym circuit, as well as basketball courts, soccer fields, the beach and bushwalking tracks. Taylor responds with support from his staff to members of the community with gestures, facial expressions and signs such as “good”, “ok”, “hello” and “bye”. Taylor has relaxed body language and posture when out with small groups. Taylor is generally healthy, only experiencing minor colds once or twice a year. Taylor is not fussy when it comes to food and enjoys eating the healthy foods that staff prepare for him. Taylor also drinks plenty of water which further supports his health. As Taylor is constantly on the go, he has sufficient exercise daily to support his health and wellbeing. Taylor has damage to his frontal lobe that causes him to have short-term memory deficits.