'Are you proposed to use restrictive interventions?':'Yes','Restrictive intervention': ['Chemical','Mechanical','Seclusion'],'Medication(s) that will be used (e.g., name, dosage, frequency, administration, route, prescriber)': '{'name':'Risperidone','Dosage ':'3mg morning and evening ','Frequency':'Routine','Administration':'Tablet','Route':'Orally''Prescriber':'Neuropsychiatrist'}','Positive behavioural support strategies to be used before the PRN use of the medication':'Not required as this medication is to be used on a routine basis','Circumstance(s) in which the medication(s) will be used': 'Taylor is prescribed fixed dose Risperidone 6mg [3mg b.d.] by his Neuropsychiatrist Dr Kelp. Taylor’s Risperidone aids in reducing the intensity of serious incidents, whilst the proactive measures in this plan are being implemented.','Procedure for administering the medication(s), including observation and monitoring of side-effects':'The Risperidone is pre-packed by the pharmacist in a Webster Pack and is checked and signed for by staff when collected. The administration of Risperidone is immediately recorded on Taylor’s medication chart, signed by staff member administering and countersigned by next staff member on shift [confirming medication has been removed from the Webster Pack].Any issues arising regarding side effects or missed medication will necessitate the following immediate actions: • Contact the General Practitioner; or Poisons Information Centre 13 11 26; then • Contact the House Coordinator or On-call Coordinator; then • Complete and fax an Error in Medication form to the Service Manager.Taylor will be safeguarded from abuse, neglect and exploitation by accurate and efficient monitoring and evaluation, followed by rigorous and timely information sharing and feedback. Taylor’s medication will be monitored and evaluated as follows: • Daily monitoring by Support Staff; monthly monitoring by Dr Smythe; quarterly evaluation by Dr Kelp; quarterly information provision to family [Tim and Jason], Service Manager and Dee Yarrs by the House Coordinator.Taylor is monitored closely for any side effects by his support staff and is provided with a nutritious and varied diet and drinks plenty of water. No other medications are introduced to Taylor without prior approval from his Neuropsychiatrist Dr Kelp and General Practitioner Dr Smythe.Taylor has monthly general health checks with his General Practitioner Dr Smythe as additional monitoring for side effects.','How will chemical restraint be gradually reduced as behavioural goals are achieved by the person?':'It is anticipated that once Taylor is able to independently use the replacement behaviour (ie sign ‘next’) that reduction in chemical restraint will be clinically indicated.','Why is the use of this medication the least restrictive way of ensuring the safety of the person and/or others?':'The routine use of Risperidone is being undertaken to reduce the intensity of Taylor’s incidents of behaviour that causes harm to self or others, during the implementation of the behavioural strategies listed in this plan. By reducing the intensity of Taylor’s behaviour it also aids in avoiding the use of highly intrusive forms of restriction such as physical restraint. In combination with the strategies outlined in this plan, the use of chemical restraint Risperidone is the least restrictive alternative to support Taylor.','Social validity of the restrictive practice':{'How did you assess the acceptability of this practice? ':'Going through the plan with relevant stakeholders, allowing them to ask questions and taking into account all feedback provided in the final version of this plan.','Who did you consult with to assess this?': 'Parents, guardians and support staff'},'Authorisation for the use of restrictive practices':{'Authorising body':'Authorised Program Officer, MV Services','Approval period':'12 months from June 1, 2022'},'Description of the restraint(s) to be used':'','Positive behavioural support strategies to be used before the use of the restraint':'','Circumstance(s) in which the restraint will be used':'','Procedure for using the restraint, including observation, monitoring and maximum time period':'','How will the restraint be gradually reduced as behavioural goals are achieved by the person?':'','Why is the use of this restraint the least restrictive way of ensuring the safety of the person and/or others?':'','Social validity of the restrictive practice':{'How did you assess the acceptability of this practice? ':'','Who did you consult with to assess this?':''},'Authorisation for the use of restrictive practice':{'Authorising body':'','Approval period':''},'Description of the restraint(s) to be used':'Headgear','Frequency of use':'Routine use','Positive behavioural support strategies to be used before the as needed use of the restraint':'Taylor routinely wears his headgear for 18 hours per day. As such, there are no positive strategies which precede each episode of him placing it on each morning.','Circumstance(s) in which the restraint will be used':'Consistent with the recommendation of Dr Kelp, Neuropsychiatrist, Taylor is to wear his protective headgear during waking hours','Procedure for using the restraint, including observation, monitoring and maximum time period':'He will wear the headgear for 18 hours continuous with removal for showering and retiring to bed.Upon rising, Taylor is to be invited to assist staff to put his headgear on, staff are to ensure it is securely fitted with no hair caught in the back laces and both chin straps secured without pinching any skin. Upon retiring or having a shower, staff are to invite Taylor to help them take his headgear off. Following hitting head behaviour, when safe to do so and Taylor is happy for you to approach, staff to inspect Taylor’s headgear to ensure it is securely fitted and not pulling any hair or pinching any skin. Taylor’s protective headgear is to be cleaned with sanitising wipes and inspected nightly after Taylor goes to bed for any signs of wear and tear to the padding, internal and external soft surfaces, back laces and double chin strap. Any identified concerns are to be recorded on Taylor’s headgear maintenance form and the House Coordinator or On-call Coordinator to be contacted immediately.Taylor will be safeguarded from abuse, neglect and exploitation by accurate and efficient monitoring and evaluation, followed by rigorous and timely information sharing and feedback. Taylor’s Restrictive Practices will be monitored and evaluated as follows:• Reported per incident, daily monitoring by Support Staff; monthly monitoring by the House Coordinator; monthly information provision to family [Tim and Jason], the Service Manager and the Behaviour Support Specialist by the House Coordinator, annual reviews by his Neuropsychiatrist.','How do you know this restraint is safe to use?':'A safety assessment was undertaken by Taylor’s occupational therapist, who confirmed that the headgear was safe to use for 18 hours continuous wear.','How will the restraint be gradually reduced as behavioural goals are achieved by the person?':'The continued use and need for the mechanical restraint will be impacted directly by the strategies listed in this plan. It is anticipated that once Taylor is able to independently use the replacement behaviour (ie sign ‘next’) there will be a reduction in his head hitting behaviours and that the use of the mechanical restraint can be reviewed for reduction in use.','Why is the use of this practice the least restrictive way of ensuring the safety of the person and/or others?':'Taylors’ hitting head behaviour to solid objects and or staff is of such intensity that he has suffered diffuse Traumatic Brain Injury [TBI] with ongoing contusions, hematomas, lacerations and nerve damage resulting in communication and cognitive impairment. Due to the significant frequency, intensity and duration of Taylors behaviour that causes harm to self or others, and following professional advice from Dr Kelp, Neuropsychiatrist, Taylor wears protective headgear during waking hours. This is an interim measure which is vital to keep Taylor safe and reduce possible injury whilst he learns the replacement behaviour.','Social validity of the practice':{'How did you assess the acceptability of this practice?':'Going through the plan with relevant stakeholders, allowing them to ask questions and taking into account all feedback provided in the final version of this plan.','Who did you consult with to assess this?':'Parents, guardians and support staff',},'Authorisation for the use of restrictive practices':{'Authorising body':'Authorised Program Officer, MV Services','Approval period':'12 months from June 1, 2022'},'Description of the restraint(s) to be used':'','Frequency of use':['Routine use','As needed'],'Positive behavioural support strategies to be used before the as needed use of the restraint':'','Circumstance(s) in which the restraint will be used':'','What is the person with disability prevented from accessing?':'','Procedure for using the restraint, including observation and monitoring ':'','Will other people be impacted by the use of this restraint?':['Yes','No'],'If YES, how will impact on others be minimised?': '','How will the restraint be gradually reduced as behavioural goals are achieved by the person?': '','Why is the use of this practice the least restrictive way of ensuring the safety of the person and/or others?': '','Social validity of the practice': ['How did you assess the acceptability of this practice? ','Who did you consult with to assess this?'],'Authorisation for the use of the practices':['Authorising body','Approval period'],'Frequency of use':['Routine use','As needed'],'Positive behavioural support strategies to be used before the as needed use of seclusion':'The continued use and need for the use of seclusion will be impacted directly by the application of strategies listed in this plan. It is anticipated that once Taylor is able to independently use the replacement behaviour (ie sign ‘next’) that reduction in seclusion will be clinically indicated. In the interim; 1. When Taylor is unsure of what is happening next he may show signs that indicate that he is about to engage in the behaviours that cause harm to himself or others. These early behaviours are; a. Deep, low vocalisations [humming progresses to grunting] and pacing [3 fast steps back and forth]; b. Runs towards staff, wide eyes and hands fisted at sides, stiff body; If Taylor begins to engage in this behaviour immediately use speech and sign to him what is happening next and encourage Taylor to use his “next” sign; 2. If Taylor’s behaviour escalates and he begins to use the behaviours that cause harm to self or others (Full body slam and hitting head on staff) o Ensure the safety of Taylor by using speech and signing what is happening next and that staff are there to help him, whilst moving any items on the floor out of Taylor’s direct path; o If Taylor continues to escalate, ensure the safety of all by telling other people in the room to leave immediately, keeping Taylor in your line of sight, position your back to the door and continue to use speech and sign what is happening next and that staff are there to help him;','Circumstance(s) in which seclusion will be used':'Seclusion is only to be used when the safety of staff or others is at risk due to Taylor attempting to hit them with his head. 1. Taylor is only to be secluded within his own residential property, by removing all other persons from his space and restricting his free exit from the rear section of the building or2. Preventing access to staff, co-tenants and others locked in the staff room. A demonstration of why use of seclusion is the least restrictive way of ensuring the safet','The maximum frequency of seclusion per day, week and/or month; and for how long (minutes/hours)':'Taylor usually settles within 10 minutes of any incident of behaviour that causes harm to self or others. Seclusion may be used for a maximum of 15 minutes at the discretion of support staff. Seclusion will not occur more than twice per day, or 60 times per month.','Procedure for using seclusion, including observation and monitoring': '1. Redirect Taylor to the rear of the building; a. Lock the hallway door maintaining Taylor’s access to the toilet and bathroom, but limiting access to the front of the house b. Taylor is to be the only person in the rear of the building; 2. If unable to redirect Taylor to the rear of the property: a. all staff, co-tenants and others in the home are to proceed directly to the staff room and lock the door; 3. Staff are to ensure they remain in the closest position possible to the locked door, either the hall door or the staffroom door, and listening for cessation of banging sounds. 4. After nil banging sounds can be heard by staff for a period of 60 seconds: a. Staff to speak to Taylor through the locked door, asking if he is OK; b. When Taylor responds with his “yes” sound, staff are to ask Taylor “can I come in”; c. When Taylor responds with his “yes” sound staff to unlock and slowly open the door, identifying where Taylor is in the room; d. Staff are to stand close to the door way with a relaxed posture and body language and provide verbal support to Taylor, asking again if he is OK and if he would like a drink of water; e. When Taylor responds with his “yes” sound, a nod or sign for “good” staff to let Taylor know they will get him a glass of water and do so; f. When staff return to Taylor, they are to let Taylor know that everything is OK, that they are there to help him; g. When Taylor is exhibiting nil precursor or behaviour that causes harm to self or others, has a relaxed posture and body language offer to help Taylor. Check his headgear to make sure it is securely fitted and not pinching any skin or pulling any hair. Reporting: • Each use of seclusion is reported as soon as practical [verbally within 3 hours, formally within 24 hours] to the House Coordinator or On-call Coordinator. • Record all use of seclusion on Taylor’s Restrictive Practice Reporting Form; and • Complete a Behaviour Incident Report Form.Taylor will be safeguarded from abuse, neglect and exploitation by accurate and efficient monitoring and evaluation, followed by rigorous and timely information sharing and feedback. The use of seclusion will be monitored and evaluated as follows: • • Reported per use by Support Staff; weekly monitoring and monthly evaluation by the House Coordinator; monthly information provision to family [Tim and Jason], his Neuropsychiatrist, the Service Manager and the Behaviour Support Specialist by the House Coordinator.','How will seclusion be gradually reduced as behavioural goals are achieved by the person?': 'It is anticipated that once Taylor is able to independently use the replacement behaviour (ie sign ‘next’) that reduction in seclusion will be clinically indicated.','Why is the use seclusion the least restrictive way of ensuring the safety of the person and/or others?':'The episodic use of seclusion will be used to reduce harm to staff from Taylor. The ongoing use of seclusion will not improve Taylor’s quality of life or assist in the reduction of the overall impact of his behaviour that causes harm to self or others. However, its episodic use is necessary to prevent harm to staff while they implement the strategies in this plan and Taylor is learning the skill of signing “next” to ask staff what is happening next. The use of seclusion is the least restrictive alternative for Taylor at present whilst he learns his replacement behaviour.','Social validity of seclusion':{'How did you assess the acceptability of this practice?':'Going through the plan with relevant stakeholders, allowing them to ask questions and taking into account all feedback provided in the final version of this plan.','Who did you consult with to assess this?':'Parents, guardians and support staff',},'Authorisation for the use of restrictive practices':{'Authorising body':'Authorised Program Officer, MV Services','Approval period':'12 months from June 1, 2022'}























